- #[[software design red flags]]
- When adjacent layers have similar abstractions, the problem often manifests itself in the form of pass-through methods.
- definition of a pass-through methods is one that does little except invoke another method whose signature is similar or identical to that of the calling methods.
- If a pass through method is do nothing except pass it's arguments to another method, usually with the same API as the pass-through method. this indicates that there is not a clean division of responsibility between the classes.
- why pass-through methods are bad
	- they make classes shallower, they increase the interface complexity of the class. but they don't increase the total functionality of the system.
	- pass-through methods also create dependencies between classes: if the signature of one layer changed other has to follow the update.
- The solution is to refactor the classes so that each class has a distinct and coherent set of responsibilities.
	- one approach is to expose the lower level class directly to the caller of the class.
	- another approach is to redistribute the functionality between he classes.
-
- **when is interface duplication is ok?**
	- having methods with the same signature is not always bad. the important thing is that each new method should contribute significant functionality. pass through methods are bad because they contribute no new functionality.
	- examples on the useful for a method to call another method with the same signature is a [[dispatcher]]
	- it's fine for several methods to have the same signature as long as each of them provides useful and distinct functionality.
- [[Decorator pattern]] is one that encourages API duplication across layers. A decorator object takes an existing object and extends its functionality it provides an api similar or identical to underlaying object