tags: #software-design #oop
type: #literature

Polymorphism (from Greek, meaning “many forms”) is the ability of an object to take different forms and thus, depending upon the context, to respond to the same message in different ways. Take the example of a chess game; a chess piece can take many forms, like bishop, castle, or knight and all these pieces will respond differently to the ‘move’ message

**Polymorphism** is the ability of any data to be processed in more than one form. The word itself indicates the meaning as **poly** means **many** and **morphism** means **types**. Polymorphism is one of the most important concepts of object-oriented programming languages. The most common use of polymorphism in object-oriented programming occurs when a parent class reference is used to refer to a child class object. Here we will see how to represent any function in many types and many forms. In a real-life example of polymorphism, a person at the same time can have different roles to play in life. Like a woman, at the same time is a mother, a wife, an employee and a daughter. So the same person has to have many features but has to implement each as per the situation and the condition. Polymorphism is considered as one of the important features of Object Oriented Programming.

**Polymorphism** is the key power of object-oriented programming. It is so important that languages that don’t support polymorphism cannot advertise themselves as Object-Oriented languages. Languages that possess classes but have no ability of polymorphism are called object-based languages. Thus it is very vital for an object-oriented programming language. It is the ability of an object or reference to take many forms in different instances. It implements the concept of function overloading, function overriding and virtual functions.
